





h2. Top Priorities

* *Role discovery* sucks right now -- broham = weak, too much setup, ick
** Make broham a webservice in front of pluggable backend?
** Get people's blessing that cluster_service_discovery is a good impl.
* *Documentation*: moar plz.
* *Videocast*: a visual walkthrough would help adoption
* *Bootstrap*: bless a minimal bootstrap method
** Should we use packages or scripts?
* *ChefHadoopNfsMaster*: smoother instantiation of a standalone (starter) cluster.
** chef server walkthrough could use work

h2. Cloud / Local

* *EBS volume creation*: create, attach, format, populate databag
** Make sure 
* *Local cluster*: separate out cloud code to work with local code
* *Rackspace & other clouds*: Abstract out EC2-specific codes
* *JClouds*
* *Poolparty*
** The scripts are insufficently DRY -- bring some of this into poolparty trunk?
** Complain if the validation.pem (etc) is missing
* *bugs*:
** this thing with the [defunct] processes

h2. Hadoop

* *Tuning* for generic node -- is EC2-specific tuning necessary?
* *Admin tasks*
** Make namenode formatting safe
** recipe to do namenode metadata backup?
* *EBS attachment* = still shaky
* *Secondary Namenode on non-master*: Right now it's really hard to do something like 'make one slave also be the 2NN'. This should be easy
* *Patched version*: this is still hard
* If I set a hostname ('gibbon.infochimps.com') on a 

h2. Azkaban

* runit script flapping

h2. Zookeeper

* Need scripts
** cluster discovery integration?

h2. Cassandra

* runit script flapping
* Newer point version
* cassandra shouldn't start before the /etc/cassandra is present
* *Tuning* for cluster size

h2. HBase

* Need scripts
** cluster discovery

h2. Ponies

* *Monitoring, etc*:
** Scribe
** Ganglia
* Elephant Friends
** *Hive*
** *Mahout*
* Dynamic DNS

h2. Plays well with others

* *Whirr*: integrate &or play nice with Whirr
* *Opscode cookbooks acceptance*: Clean up and document, metadata.rb, etc so that we can put the cookbooks in for chef adoption.
* *Performance qualification*: run some "chimpmark":http://github.com/infochimps/chimpmark tasks across clusters and report on completion times
