# papertrail chef cookbook

Installs/Configures Sys Logging to papertrailapp.com

## Overview

Connect syslog to papertrailapp.com.

## Attributes

* `[:papertrail][:logger]`            - Logger to use. Support loggers include: rsyslog. Defaults to rsyslog. (default: "rsyslog")
* `[:papertrail][:remote_host]`       - Papertrail host to send stats to. Defaults to `logs.papertrailapp.com`. (default: "logs.papertrailapp.com")
* `[:papertrail][:remote_port]`       - Port to use. No default.
* `[:papertrail][:cert_file]`         - Location of papertrail certificate file (default: "/etc/papertrail.crt")
* `[:papertrail][:cert_url]`          - URL to download certificate from (default: "https://papertrailapp.com/tools/syslog.papertrail.crt")
* `[:papertrail][:hostname_name]`     - Explicit override of system's hostname
  - By default, this recipe will log to Papertrail using the system's hostname. If you want to set the hostname that will be used (think ephemeral cloud nodes) you can set `hostname_name` (preferred) or `hostname_cmd` (used if `hostname_name` is absent).
* `[:papertrail][:hostname_cmd]`      - Command to run to determine system's hostname
  - By default, this recipe will log to Papertrail using the system's hostname. If you want to set the hostname that will be used (think ephemeral cloud nodes) you can set `hostname_name` (preferred) or `hostname_cmd` (used if `hostname_name` is absent).
* `[:papertrail][:watch_files]`       - Command to run to determine system's hostname
  - A list of files that will be to watch and include in the papertrail logging -- useful for including output from applications that aren't configured to use syslog.
  
  Each entry in this list is a hash of:
  * [:filename] - Full path to the file.
  * [:tag] - What to tag log lines that come from this file. Best to use a short application name.
  
  For example:
    default[:papertrail][:watch_files] = [{:filename => "/var/log/myapp.log", :tag => "myapp:"}]
  

## Recipes 

* `default`                  - Base configuration for papertrail
## Integration

Supports platforms: debian and ubuntu

Cookbook dependencies:
* rsyslog


## License and Author

Author::                Mike Heffner, Librato, Inc. (<mike@librato.com>)
Copyright::             2011, Mike Heffner, Librato, Inc.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

> readme generated by [cluster_chef](http://github.com/infochimps/cluster_chef)'s cookbook_munger
