h1. Settings files and Credentials


h2. Prerequisites

You should already be familiar with hadoop and with the Amazon cloud.  

Choose a name for your cluster, a domain name for your chef server, and a domain name for the cluster's master node. (It's OK if your chef server is the same as the master node,  In this example, we'll be using

* 'zaius' as the cluster name
* 'chef.yourdomain.com' as the hostname of the chef server
* 'zaius.yourdomain.com' as the hostname of the cluster's master node

h2. Install dependencies

Install these gems:

* chef
* configliere
* amazon-ec2
* infochimps-poolparty

**NOTE**: Please use the "infochimps branch of poolparty":http://github.com/infochimps/poolparty for spot instance support and other tweaks

h2. Create Settings Directory

<pre><code>
  mkdir ~/.hadoop-ec2
  mkdir ~/.hadoop-ec2/keypairs ~/.hadoop-ec2/certs
  ln -nfs ~/.hadoop-ec2 ~/.poolparty
  ln -nfs ~/.hadoop-ec2 ~/.chef
</code></pre>

From this code repo dir, copy the template config files over.

<pre><code>
  cd PATH/TO/cluster_chef
  cp ./config/poolparty-example.yaml   ~/.hadoop-ec2/poolparty.yaml 
  ln -nfs ~/.hadoop-ec2/poolparty.yaml ~/.hadoop-ec2/aws
  # optional:
  ( cd ~/.hadoop-ec2 && git init && git add . && git commit -m "Initial commit" )
</code></pre>

h2. Go on the Amazon AWS Scavenger Hunt

* Register for EC2, if you haven't. You may have to click through a license agreement and check your email. If you want to use the Broham tool for assigning cluster roles, sign up for Simple

Sign in to the "aws console":http://bit.ly/awsconsole and collect the following power-ups:

* Allocate an **elastic IP** for the head node.
* On your DNS server (or http://dyndns.org), set a **fully-qualified domain name** pointing to that IP address -- say, http://chef.yourdomain.com:4040
* Create an **EC2 keypair** named 'zaius', and store its .pem file in ~/.hadoop-ec2/keypairs/zaius.pem
* If you've never done so, store your **EC2 certificate** files in @~/.hadoop-ec2/certs/pk-WHATEVER.pem@ and @~/.hadoop-ec2/certs/cert-WHATEVER.pem@.
* Fix the permissions of your keypairs directory: @chmod 600 ~/.hadoop-ec2/*/*.pem@.
* **AWS Account ID**: It's near the top of the page, right below "Welcome, Whoever You Are": something like "8675-3000-9999". Record it without the dashes: "867530009999"
* **AWS Access Key**: From the Your Account / Access Keys; 20 characters, something like "12345ABCDE12345ABCDE".
* **AWS Secret Access Key**: From the Your Account / Access Keys; 40 characters, something like "gobBBLEDy/goo+kANDlattersandnumbersd00dA".

h2. Settings files

In the file @~/.hadoop-ec2/poolparty.yaml@,

* Set the @access_key@, @secret_access_key@ and @account_id@ using the values found above.
* Put the URL of your chef server in the top-level [:user_data][:chef] section; and again in the node_name for your chef server
* Put the elastic IP you allocated in the section for your chef server
* Update your preferred availability zone, etc

h2. Next Steps

Next, follow the instructions for "Step 2: Launch the Chef Server / Hadoop Master.":http://github.com/infochimps/cluster_chef/blob/master/notes/pt2-create-chef-server.textile
