# provides_service chef cookbook

Allow nodes to discover the location for a given service at runtime, adapting when new services register.

## Overview

Based in good part on code from Ben Black's cassandra recipes

Allow nodes to discover the location for a given service at runtime, adapting
when new services register.

Operations:

* register for a service. A timestamp records the last registry.
* discover all chef nodes that have registered for the given service.
* discover the most recent chef node for that service.
* get the 'public_ip' for a service -- the address that nodes in the larger
  world should use
* get the 'public_ip' for a service -- the address that nodes on the local
  subnet / private cloud should use

Implementation

Nodes register a service by setting the +[:provides_service][service_name]+
attribute. This attribute is a hash containing at 'timestamp' (the time of
registry), but the service can pass in an arbitrary hash of values to merge
in.

## Attributes


## Recipes 

* `default`                  - Base configuration for provides_service
## Integration

Supports platforms: debian and ubuntu



## License and Author

Author::                Philip (flip) Kromer - Infochimps, Inc (<coders@infochimps.com>)
Copyright::             2011, Philip (flip) Kromer - Infochimps, Inc

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

> readme generated by [cluster_chef](http://github.com/infochimps/cluster_chef)'s cookbook_munger
